Please answer the below Data Structure Questions:

why do we need data structure?
A. Data structures are used in computing to make it easy to locate and retrieve information.
    in object oriented programming languages like java, a class is a data structure that organizes attributes and functions in such a way that they can be easily replicated.

What are the various operations that can be performed on different Data Structures?
A. The various operations that can be performed on data structures are:
    1. Traversing- It is used to access each data item exactly once so that it can be processed.
    2. Searching- It is used to find out the location of the data item if it exists in the given collection of data items.
    3. Inserting- It is used to add a new data item in the given collection of data items.
    4. Deleting- It is used to delete an existing data item from the given collection of data items.
    5. Sorting- It is used to arrange the data items in some order i.e. in ascending or descending order in case of numerical data and in dictionary order in case of alphanumeric data.
    6. Merging- It is used to combine the data items of two sorted files into single file in the sorted form.

List out the areas in which data structures are applied extensively?
A. 1Compiler Design, Operating System, Database Management System, Statistical analysis package, Numerical Analysis, Graphics, Artificial Intelligence, Simulation

what is an Array?
An array  is a dynamically-created object that serves as a container to hold constant number of values of the same type.

what is the difference between the Array and ArrayList?
Arrays are static in nature. Arrays are fixed length data structures. You can’t change their size once they are created.
Whereas, ArrayList is dynamic in nature. Its size is automatically increased if you add elements beyond its capacity.

what is LinkedList?
LinkedList is a data structure where each element consist of three things. First one is the reference to previous element, second one is the actual value of the element and last one is the reference to next element.

How is an Array different from Linked List?


what is queue?
what is stack?
what is FIFO and LIFO?
what is the order of complexity?
what is the best case to search an element from an array?
what is the worst case to search an element from an array?
what is tree in data structure?
what is graph in data structure?
what is the difference between the HashTable and HashMap?
What are the major data structures used in the following areas : RDBMS, Network data model and Hierarchical data model.
How HashMap works in java?
What is ArrayIndexOutOfBoundsException in java? When it occurs?
What are the different ways of copying an array into another array?
What is difference between an array and a linked list?
What is DFS and BFS?
What is Recursion?
What are linear and non linear data Structures?
What is Big-(O)-notation?
Outlined different kind of sorting algorithm with time complexity?

Draw a table with time complexity in which it will summarize all the data structure feature's advantages and disadvantages.
  a)In terms of Accessing element.
  b)In terms of Inserting element.
  c)In terms of Searching element.
  d)In terms of Removing element.


